<h1>Storybook Monthly 2020-08-03</h1>

- [📢 Announcement](#-announcement)
  - [📅 Calendar invite](#-calendar-invite)
- [⏱ Agenda](#-agenda)
  - [Introduction - 5m](#introduction---5m)
  - [Release status - 15m](#release-status---15m)
    - [6.0 release (issue)](#60-release-issue)
      - [Status](#status)
    - [6.1 ideas](#61-ideas)
      - [Performance @shilman](#performance-shilman)
      - [TypeScript types @yannbf](#typescript-types-yannbf)
      - [Manager theming @tooppaaa](#manager-theming-tooppaaa)
      - [Theme editor @yannbf](#theme-editor-yannbf)
      - [Jump to content a11y PR @yannbf](#jump-to-content-a11y-pr-yannbf)
  - [Closing - 5m](#closing---5m)
- [📝 Notes](#-notes)
  - [📋 Attendees](#-attendees)
  - [📹 Video recording](#-video-recording)
  - [✅ Action items](#-action-items)

# 📢 Announcement

Storybook monthly is where we gather to socialize, update release progress, discuss project-wide maintenance, give project updates and demos, and brainstorm about the project's future.

It's a casual public meeting, and everybody is welcome, regardless of their level of participation.

Look for a link to the [zoom](https://zoom.us/) meeting 15 minutes before the meeting starts in the Storybook Discord's [#maintenance channel](https://discord.gg/qhAxMgN). We'll share [notes and screen recording](https://github.com/storybookjs/community) afterwards.

### 📅 Calendar invite

**Add to calendar 👉** [_2020-08-03 16:00 UTC_](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=ZDRsM2g5c3JtOTRlM2dpNWNyZXMxcnRkbWxfMjAyMDAxMDZUMTYwMDAwWiA4ZDB1NzBzbm9zY2ZkOGw2Z2lrNm83M2syMEBn&tmsrc=8d0u70snoscfd8l6gik6o73k20%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

# ⏱ Agenda

### Introduction - 5m

- Welcome
- Self-introductions

### Release status - 15m

#### 6.0 release ([issue](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/issues/9311))

> 5 mo cycle: Apr 29 beta, Jun 29 rc, Aug 10 final

- Storybook controls
- Storybook composition
- Zero-config typescript
- Docs overhaul
- Doc blocks
- Addon essentials
- Storybook for Server?
- Breaking changes
- Yarn 2 support

##### Status

- @shilman No known blockers, working through random support bugs, expect 2 weeks support post launch
- @domyen documentation coming together this week: content, infrastructure, UI?
  - @ndelangen can we get latest/next versions soon?

#### 6.1 ideas

##### Performance @shilman

- @shilman to provide benchmark / RFC
  - fresh CRA + essentials
  - loaded synthetic example
  - loaded public real world example tbd
- possible perf projects
  - @ndelangen remove telejson
  - @mrmckeb browserslist to target specific browsers
  - @ndelangen talk to open-wc about best ways to use the most modern APIs and fall back for older browsers

##### TypeScript types @yannbf

- @yannbf need consistent types for CSF
- @shilman need a types package
- @mrmckeb maybe multiple packages per framework to deal with dependencies
- @yannbf how does this relate to CSF repo?
- @yannbf to write RFC

##### Manager theming @tooppaaa

- @tooppaaa demo Talend storybook which is a beautiful hacked up retheme
- @tooppaaa what can we do to enable this in storybook?
- @domyen widening the theme vars adds extra UI work for every new feature/addon
- @shilman maybe we can add some mixture of features (e.g. hierarchy icons), theme vars, and well-documented CSS escape hatches
- @tooppaaa to document what he did and make a proposal

##### Theme editor @yannbf

- @yannbf simple form UI for live preview of theme & generate manager.js

##### Jump to content a11y PR @yannbf

- @yannbf how can I get my PR merged?
- @domyen we need to work out the UI
- @mrmckeb is there a no-UI version?
- @domyen let's do this in 6.x TBD and simply get the UI right

### Closing - 5m

- Brief closing remarks

# 📝 Notes

### 📋 Attendees

jonspalmer domyen yannbf mrmckeb ndelangen tooppaaa

### 📹 Video recording

https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/1c9XJp3X2mJLGKfpzHv_V5YBAqvMX6a82iEbrvNbmh2hkjd89bnpSIkXzsIkOaus

Password: 5wD7+iUH

### ✅ Action items

- @shilman 6.0 release
- @domyen 6.0 docs
- @shilman 6.1 perf benchmarks / rfc
- @yannbf typescript types rfc
- @tooppaaa manager theming rfc
