<h1>Storybook Monthly 2020-05-05</h1>

- [📢 Announcement](#-announcement)
    - [📅 Calendar invite](#-calendar-invite)
- [⏱ Agenda](#-agenda)
    - [Introduction - 5m](#introduction---5m)
    - [Release status - 15m](#release-status---15m)
- [📝 Notes](#-notes)
    - [📋 Attendees](#-attendees)
    - [📹 Video recording](#-video-recording)
    - [Documentation overhaul for 6.0](#documentation-overhaul-for-60)
    - [React Fast Refresh](#react-fast-refresh)
    - [Examples overhaul](#examples-overhaul)

# 📢 Announcement

Storybook monthly is where we gather to socialize, update release progress, discuss project-wide maintenance, give project updates and demos, and brainstorm about the project's future.

It's a casual public meeting, and everybody is welcome, regardless of their level of participation.

Look for a link to the [zoom](https://zoom.us/) meeting 15 minutes before the meeting starts in the Storybook Discord's [#maintenance channel](https://discord.gg/qhAxMgN). We'll share [notes and screen recording](https://github.com/storybookjs/community) afterwards.

### 📅 Calendar invite

**Add to calendar 👉** [_2020-05-05 16:00 UTC_](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=ZDRsM2g5c3JtOTRlM2dpNWNyZXMxcnRkbWxfMjAyMDAxMDZUMTYwMDAwWiA4ZDB1NzBzbm9zY2ZkOGw2Z2lrNm83M2syMEBn&tmsrc=8d0u70snoscfd8l6gik6o73k20%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

# ⏱ Agenda

### Introduction - 5m

- Welcome
- Self-introductions

### Release status - 15m

**6.0 release ([issue](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/issues/9311))**

> 5 mo cycle: Apr 29 beta, Jun 1 rc, Jun 15 final

- Doc blocks
- Storybook composition
- Storybook args
- Addon essentials
- Rich props table
- Storybook for Server
- Breaking changes
- Yarn 2 support

> **NOTE: we are pushing the dates to make time for a first pass at overhauling the documentation. 6.0 will get a lot of attention and new users and we don't want to waste those eyeballs on outdated docs.**

# 📝 Notes

### 📋 Attendees

@yannbf @tooppaaa @gaetanmaisse @mrmckeb @ndelangen @domyen @shilman

### 📹 Video recording

https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/9OpwKJ7Oy2dIH8_11Rn2Wr5iIcf0X6a8gSEf-_tZmhwFfK6KMa4l763ONK0TlvlZ

### Documentation overhaul for 6.0

- Markdown in repo / presentation in front-page
- https://github.com/storybookjs/frontpage/pull/101
- Versioned docs

Documentation lags behind the features

- Information architecture
- Content

Multi-language? - hard to version (glamorous website had interesting versioning)

How MUI handles translations https://crowdin.com/project/material-ui-docs

Gatsby docs are basically API docs

Need to inform people that documentation is out of date

Core addons - part of the documentation experience

### React Fast Refresh

First attempt failed due to incompatible SB webpack magic that generates virtual modules in memory. Possible fixes:

- Write to a file system (hacky fix behind a feature flag as short-term 6.0 fix)
- Split all files into entry (as long-term 7.0 fix)

### Examples overhaul

Goal to strip out most of the content from the monorepo

Standardize the way template generation is done from the CLI

- Same files / same selectors

Uniform infrastructure

- E2E testing across all the frameworks
- Fixture projects for CLI
- Framework x version x addons - parallelize it across CI

Q: How about focused tests for a specific add-on, e.g. addon-docs?
A1: There’s currently e2e tests for official-storybook, can add them there?
A2: Will sleep on it for a general solution
