<h1>Storybook Monthly 2020-06-01</h1>

- [📢 Announcement](#-announcement)
    - [📅 Calendar invite](#-calendar-invite)
- [⏱ Agenda](#-agenda)
    - [Introduction - 5m](#introduction---5m)
    - [Release status - 15m](#release-status---15m)
      - [6.0 release (issue)](#60-release-issue)
    - [Maintenance issues - 10m](#maintenance-issues---10m)
    - [Project updates / demos - 30m](#project-updates--demos---30m)
    - [Closing - 5m](#closing---5m)
- [📝 Notes](#-notes)
    - [📋 Attendees](#-attendees)
    - [📹 Video recording](#-video-recording)
    - [Zero-config Typescript @mrmckeb](#zero-config-typescript-mrmckeb)
    - [TSDX @kylemh](#tsdx-kylemh)
    - [Documentation overhaul @domyen](#documentation-overhaul-domyen)
    - [Misc design @domyen](#misc-design-domyen)
    - [CLI overhaul @yannbf @tooppaa @gaetanmaisse](#cli-overhaul-yannbf-tooppaa-gaetanmaisse)
      - [Yarn 2 @gaetanmaisse](#yarn-2-gaetanmaisse)

# 📢 Announcement

Storybook monthly is where we gather to socialize, update release progress, discuss project-wide maintenance, give project updates and demos, and brainstorm about the project's future.

It's a casual public meeting, and everybody is welcome, regardless of their level of participation.

Look for a link to the [zoom](https://zoom.us/) meeting 15 minutes before the meeting starts in the Storybook Discord's [#maintenance channel](https://discord.gg/qhAxMgN). We'll share [notes and screen recording](https://github.com/storybookjs/community) afterwards.

### 📅 Calendar invite

**Add to calendar 👉** [_2020-06-01 16:00 UTC_](https://calendar.google.com/event?action=TEMPLATE&tmeid=ZDRsM2g5c3JtOTRlM2dpNWNyZXMxcnRkbWxfMjAyMDAxMDZUMTYwMDAwWiA4ZDB1NzBzbm9zY2ZkOGw2Z2lrNm83M2syMEBn&tmsrc=8d0u70snoscfd8l6gik6o73k20%40group.calendar.google.com&scp=ALL)

# ⏱ Agenda

### Introduction - 5m

- Welcome
- Self-introductions

### Release status - 15m

#### 6.0 release ([issue](https://github.com/storybookjs/storybook/issues/9311))

> 5 mo cycle: Apr 29 beta, Jun 29 rc, July 31 final

- Storybook controls
- Storybook composition
- Zero-config typescript
- Docs overhaul
- Doc blocks
- Addon essentials
- Storybook for Server?
- Breaking changes
- Yarn 2 support

### Maintenance issues - 10m

### Project updates / demos - 30m

### Closing - 5m

- Brief closing remarks

# 📝 Notes

### 📋 Attendees

@yannbf @mrmckeb @domyen @tooppaaaaa @gaetanmaisse @kylemh @shilman

### 📹 Video recording

https://us02web.zoom.us/rec/share/-scscY3V0U9IbI3V5GL8SIgaLoTnX6a81ihI_vRZnkjcBQJSqeT7gErb_uzMWuJu

Password: 0C.26@0=

### Zero-config Typescript @mrmckeb

Status: stable

- Q: should main.js be main.ts for TS projects?
- A: yes, it should be. if we ship types. can we get this done in 6.1?

- Q: porting core?
- A: probably not going to happen? kai out of commission? tom?
- A: Brody: port it incrementally? happy to chip in? - go through a folder at a time
- A: Ask Norbert. Yann also happy to help.

### TSDX @kylemh

- "Create react library"
- Storybook template by kyle
- Docgen - messed up
- TSDX uses rollup - keeping the config up to date with rollup = add a preset that mimmicks the rollup config. babel config easy to share, other stuff harder.
- CI job running against the latest TSDX?

### Documentation overhaul @domyen

- information architecture
- gatsby 1 to 2 implementation
- content with Tom
- framework picker & code snippets

Q: How to coordinate with CLI changes?
A: Minimally

### Misc design @domyen

- welcome to Storybook component for CLI
- Controls grouping
- Info doc block for Jeroen

### CLI overhaul @yannbf @tooppaa @gaetanmaisse

Clement has done lots of work already

Still to do:

- Welcome component from @domyen
- Colocate components & stories (open PR)
- Removing addon-notes & adding addon-essentials (open PR)
- Yarn 2 & dependencies checks

Other:

- Testing the frameworks individually is time-consuming
- Opportunity e2e testing for Docs!

#### Yarn 2 @gaetanmaisse

Broken with IE11?
